# Configuring Authentication

Zep supports JWT authentication. Carefully follow the instructions below to enable it.

### 1. Generate a secret
A cryptographically secure secret is required to sign Zep's JWT tokens. This secret should be kept safe as access to it may allow access to the Zep API.

Using OpenSSL (concatenate to remove newlines)
```sh
openssl rand -base64 64
```

or using Python
```python
import secrets
print(secrets.token_urlsafe(64))
```

### 2. Configure Auth environment variables
Set the `ZEP_AUTH_REQUIRED` and `ZEP_AUTH_SECRET` environment variables. 

For development purposes, you can do this in your
`.env` file. 

For production, you should set these according to best practices for managing secrets in your deployment environment. 
For example, Render.com has a [environment and secrets management feature](https://render.com/docs/configure-environment-variables) that can be used to set these variables.

```shell
ZEP_AUTH_REQUIRED=true
ZEP_AUTH_SECRET=<your cryptographically secure secret created above>
```

### 3. Create a JWT Token for client access
!!! note

        Ensure that you have set the ZEP_AUTH_SECRET environment variable before running the `zep` CLI.

#### Using the `zep` CLI
You can use the `zep` CLI to create a JWT token for client access. You will need to clone the Zep repo and build the Zep CLI in order to do so.

```shell
make build
./out/bin/zep --generate-token
```

#### Using another tool
Alternatively, you can use a JWT token generated by any other means. Note that Zep uses the `HS256` JWT signing algorithm and that no Claims are required. 
The token must be signed with the same secret that you set in the `ZEP_AUTH_SECRET` environment variable.

!!! Warning "Keep your JWT token safe"

        Anyone with access to your JWT token will be able to access your Zep server. Keep it safe.

### 4. Configure your client SDK to use JWT authentication

You will need to configure your client SDK to use JWT authentication. See the [SDK docs](/sdk) for details.


